2-2 How To Set Up a Repo
5:00

1. setup on GitHub
Ok how to set up a repository

This tutorial will go over the basics of setting up a repo, in two parts:
Setting up a repo on GitHub
Sending a codebase you already have to GitHub

for each of those, we'll do it with both the GUI and CLI

This tutorial follows the official GitHub documentation for this process, which is available here
https://docs.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/create-a-repo

additionally, I'm using a flavor of Arch Linux
so the exact commands may or may not be suitable for your Windows or Mac environment
but the doc linked above has you covered

Ok, so you've got your GitHub account set up already, you're logged in

Go to github.com
in the upper-right corner, you'll see a plus sign -> click it!

give your repo a name
-pick a good one because this is how everyone will refer to your code

give your repository a description
-I know we don't have a ton of time but
-the more info you fill out now the more clear this is later

choose a repository visibility
-if you have a paid account you have the ability to make your repo private
-for the rest of us, we're coding in public

initialize this repository with a readme
-technically optional but YOU SHOULD ALWAYS DO THIS
-AGAIN, ALWAYs
-let the people know what you're doing, dammit

click create repository!

Congrats, we have a repo!

you can now clone the contents of this repo to a local folder
or just leave it online-only forever

Let's clone it though!

2. How to clone a repo
2.a. CLI

navigate to your repo's main page

On the right there's a little box, download code
you have the option of downloading a zip file, with all the contents
you would choose that if you don't want your local repo linked to the remote

we don't want that though, so what we're gonna do is select this url here

in your CLI
navigate to the parent folder where you want to save this repo
I have a folder called "devs" in my home folder where I do everything
type: git clone [paste url]

the CLI will spit out some text about what's going on and if everything is gravy,
you'll see this folder appear in your file manager

congrats, you now have a remote and local repo and they're linked!

2.b.
here are the same steps in the GitHub Desktop Gui
[still gotta do this]


3. how to make a repo when you already have code

One last little demo
I'm always writing code first and setting up my repos later
So, here's a workaround for how to set up a repo where you already have code

first, in the folder where your code lives
rename that folder, -tmp or -bak works great here

second, follow all the directions I just gave you for setting up a repo and clone it locally

third, move all your code back into the empty local repo folder

lastly, add, commit, and push your changes (more in a minute)
